Latin is a highly inflected classical language that is predominately considered an elite tradition. Its intersection with structures of power can be seen through our discussions of its accessibility. An attempt to create a more just society was born out of this discussion as we spent numerous practicum classes creating lesson plans to aid us in making the language more accessible to children in the greater Worcester area.

The Latin language is surely not accessible to everyone. Specifically, there is not a lot of access for lower class individuals. For me personally, college was the first time I even saw the language. I know some of my classmates who went to highly endowed New England preparatory schools had the option of taking Latin, but even my private school in Buffalo, NY did not offer it. This being said, public and charter schools across the country surely are not offering it either. Although Latin is considered a dead language in today’s society, it is the most studied because of its importance in matters of legality, politics, and religion. Additionally, the learning of Latin offers a world of tradition different than that of any other language, so different perspectives and practices are offered. 

In practicum this semester we discussed ways in which we could possibly lessen this gap of Latin exclusivity and offer the language to children in the Worcester area. Ideally, practicum would not have been online, and we would have taught the students in person, but due to COVID-19, we were forced into lesson planning for the potential of in-person teaching in the spring semester. Our goal was to simplify and de-digitalize our learning of the language so that elementary age students could gain access and understand it. We were attempting to create a more just society by offering lower-income students the opportunity to learn a traditionally elitist language.

Despite the challenge of learning a new language, I enjoyed my time in Latin 101 this semester. Learning such a highly inflected language consequently made me more conscious of the structure of my own language and the effects that Latin had on it. Although Latin is seen as a traditionally elite language, our class has surely been doing our part in attempting to break this stigma and make the language more accessible to the children in the Worcester area.

